Input: string object
Output: new array object containing palindromic sub strings as elements
?'s:
  1. does palindrome include spaces or non-alpha chars?
    - if theyre not included when determining palindromic quality, are they still output in the palindrome sub-string itself? ex. 'ta-t' => 'tat' or 'ta-t'?
  2. does order of substrings matter?
  3. is a single character considered a substring? a palindrome?
Reqs:
  - case sensitive
  - no palindrome present or empty input string => empty array object

Problems to Solve / Algos
  1. create all possible sub-strings
    - starting with first index, increasing slice length by one, until end of slice is last index of string
    - keep track (push) each substring to some method local array object if its a palindrome
      2. determine if substring is a palindrome
        - are forwards and backwards versions of the substring the same?
    - then move starting index 'up' one
    - repeat until starting index and final index of string are the same, then stop.

  ```ruby
  def palindrome?(string)
    string.length > 0 &&
    string.chars == string.chars.reverse
  end


  # p palindrome?('cat')
  # p palindrome?('dopapod')
  # p palindrome?('tat')
  # p palindrome?('t')
  # p palindrome?('')


  def palindrome_substrings(strinput)
    palindromic_substrings = []

    strinput.chars.each_with_index do |letter, index|
      sub_string = strinput.chars[index..strinput.length - 1]
      # Create substrings of substring and determine if its a palindrome
      while sub_string.length > 1
        palindromic_substrings << sub_string.join if palindrome?(sub_string.join)
        sub_string.pop
      end
    end
    p palindromic_substrings
  end

  palindrome_substrings("supercalifragilisticexpialidocious") == ["ili"]
  palindrome_substrings("abcddcbA") == ["bcddcb", "cddc", "dd"]
  palindrome_substrings("palindrome") == []
  palindrome_substrings("") == []

  ```

# 1.5 PEDAC

## Understanding the problem

> Imagine a sequence of consecutive even integers beginning with 2. The integers are grouped in rows, with the first row contiaining one integer, the second row two integers, the third row three integers, and so on. Given an integer representing the number of a particular row, return an integer representing the sum of all the integers in that row.

```
1| [2]
2| [2, 3]
3| [2, 3, 4]
4| [2, 3 , 4, 5]
```

Given an integer that reps the line, return the sum of that line of numbers.

Input: integer
Output: integer

Explicit:  input will be a positive integer greater than or equal to 1
Implicit: 