
# Methods:

Iteration
- each (block: doesn't matter)
- each_with_index
- each_with_object => object

Transformation
- map(!) (block: return value)


Selection
- select(!) [selects only values that eval as true] (block: truthiness)
  - returns `nil` if no changes are made (keep_if does not return `nil`, returns hash)
  - Aliases:
    - #keep_if
    - #filter(!)

- reject(!) [selects only values that eval as false] (block: truthiness)
  > Reject returns a copy of the values (not references) of the original object with the elements removed for which the block returns 'true'. In this way it also is returning the objects for which the original object returns false.

  So ['me', 'you', 'us'].reject {|word| word.start_with?('y')}y
  
  will return:
  ['me', 'you']

  by 'rejecting'
  ['you'] from the calling object.

- pop
- size
- first
- take ( copys reference - **Creates alias for objects)
- partition

Mutating Selection
- shift {destructive => removes first k/v pair}


Attributes
- count (block: truthiness)

Boolean
- any? (block: truthiness)
- all? (block: truthiness)
- include?


---

https://launchschool.com/lessons/6a5eccc0/assignments/f4481ce5

# Practice Problem 1

What is the return value of the select method below? Why?

A. It will be [1, 2, 3] ]since the return value of the block will be `'hi'` each time (a truthy value).

1:06
```ruby
[1, 2, 3].select do |num|
  num > 5
  'hi'
end

```

# Practice Problem 2

How does count treat the block's return value? How can we find out?

Count will iterate through each element in the array it is called on and will return the count for each element which the block evaluates as true. This will work similar to select. Except it will give an integer value for the number of elements that will return true, rather than the elements themselves.

We can find out by running the code (this code outputs 4 which corroborates our theory) and by reading the documentation:

 > "With no argument and a block given, calls the block with each element; returns the count of elements for which the block returns a truthy value

5:50

```ruby
['ant', 'bat', 'caterpillar'].count do |str|
  str.length < 4
end


# => 2
```

# Practice Problem 3 6:00

What is the return value of reject in the following code? Why?

Reject is the opposite of select. It will exclude any element in the array object that evaluates as true (or select what is false/nil)

Since  `puts` always returns `nil` this block will evaluate to `nil` every iteration and therefore return all the elements from the original calling array object.: `[1, 2, 3]`

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].reject do |num|
  puts num
end

# 1
# 2
# 3
# => [1, 2, 3]
```
# Practice Problem 4 10:00

What is the return value of each_with_object in the following code? Why?

Each with object returns the object created at method invocation. Here it is a potentially mutated hash object `{}`.

Within the `do..end` block, we have two parameters that represent the `*args` and the object itself, labeled `hash`.

For this block we are assigning the hash at the current array elements first index which is a single letter `a`, `b`, and then `c` to the entire value the character was pulled from. So
hash['a'] = 'ant'...

We can also see from the documentation that each_with_object returns the object:
> each_with_object(object) { |(*args), memo_object| ... } → object

```ruby
['ant', 'bear', 'cat'].each_with_object({}) do |value, hash|
  hash[value[0]] = value
end

# => {"a"=>"ant", "b"=>"bear", "c"=>"cat"}

```
# Practice Problem 5 16:32

What does shift do in the following code? How can we find out?

Shift will destructively remove the first element from the object its called on. Here it is a hash and so the first `key-value` pair will be removed and returned from the method call as an array object with two elements (the first representing the key and the second element representing the value).

We can find out by running the code and by checking the Ruby documentation:
> Removes the first hash entry (see Entry Order);
  returns a 2-element Array containing the removed key and value

  shift → [key, value] or nil 


```ruby
hash = { a: 'ant', b: 'bear' }
hash.shift

# => [:a, "ant"]
# hash => {:b=>"bear"}
```
# Practice Problem 6

What is the return value of the following statement? Why?

The return value of this statement will be an integer since pop is returning the element at the last index of the calling array. This will be the string object `'caterpillar'`. So when we chaing methods together, the return value of the first call from left to right will be passed to the next call. Here, the return value of calling `pop` on the array object will pass this object to the `size` method and so we are effectively now calling `size` on the string `'caterpillar'`.
`String#size` is going to return the "count of characters in self" which will be the number of chars in `'caterpillar'` which is `11`. So this integer object will be returned from the entired chained method call.

```ruby
['ant', 'bear', 'caterpillar'].pop.size

```
# Practice Problem 7

What is the block's return value in the following code? How is it determined? Also, what is the return value of any? in this code and what does it output?

Return Value of Code:
How Determined:
What is Return Value of `any?` and what does it output?

The code below will output only the first element in the calling array since `any?` iterates over the calling object and returns `true` or `false` based on whether or not at least 1 object returns true for the block.

The reason `any?` does not output all three array elements is because it has the capacity to 'short-circuit' the block iteration. It basically has an implied line of code built in that says:
`break true if block evaluated as true`

 The return value of the call itself will be `true`. This is because for at least one element in the calling array, the block returns a truthy value.

 The return value of `any?` is a boolean `true` or `false`. This is often denoted in a method name by the use of a `?` at the end of the method name.

 Typically `any?` will not output anything, but here, because there is a call to `puts` within the block passed to it, it outputs the object currently passed to it. In this case, the integer `1` is passed to `puts`.

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].any? do |num|
  puts num
  num.odd?
end

```

# Practice Problem 8

How does take work? Is it destructive? How can we find out?

We can find out how take works by running the code. The output of this code in irb/pry is:
`[1, 2]` but the object `arr` has not been mutated and still contains all 5 elements.

We can also find this out by reading the Ruby documentaiton for `Array#take` which states:

"Returns a new Array containing the first n element of self, where n is a non-negative Integer; does not modify self."

So take works by copying the reference to the number of elements specified by the integer argument passed to it and returns a new array that contains those two objects without modifying the original array object. 

This new array will be able to modify the objects themselves, so if the original array contained a mutatble set of objects like strings, the new array would contain access to the string objects that still exist in the originaly calling array.

```
[10] pry(main)> stray = ['a', 'b', 'c']
=> ["a", "b", "c"]
[11] pry(main)> ray = stray.take(1)
=> ["a"]

[12] pry(main)> stray[0].object_id
=> 300
[13] pry(main)> ray[0].object_id
=> 300

[12] pry(main)> stray.object_id
=> 320
[13] pry(main)> ray.object_id
=> 340

# Both object id's match forthe elements even though the array's themselves are unique.
```

```ruby
arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
arr.take(2)

```
# Practice Problem 9

What is the return value of map in the following code? Why?

The return value of `Enumerable#map` is an array object with the transformed values collected from the return value of the block passed to it. This method (from the Enumerable class) is different than the `Array#map` methods.
There is only the non-mutating version of `map` and this is why it will not change anything in the calling hash.

For this example, the return value for the block will an array object with each `value.size` if it is `> 3`. In this case, the first `value.size` is NOT greater than 3, so the conditional not being evaluated returns `nil`. This is `map` however so that return value is what is placed into the new array at the corresponding index.

The objects created here are not the same object from the hash object. I.e. the new array does not share the ability to mutate any of the values in the calling hash.

```ruby
ay = { a: 'ant', b: 'bear' }

bee = (ay.map do |key, value|
[3] pry(main)*     if value.size > 3    
[3] pry(main)*       value      
[3] pry(main)*     end  
[3] pry(main)*   end  
[3] pry(main)* )

[4] pry(main)> ay
=> {:a=>"ant", :b=>"bear"}

[5] pry(main)> bee
=> [nil, "bear"]

[6] pry(main)> bee[1] = 'bluebear'
=> "bluebear"

[7] pry(main)> bee
=> [nil, "bluebear"]

[8] pry(main)> ay
=> {:a=>"ant", :b=>"bear"}
```

"When none of the conditions in an if statement evaluates as true, the if statement itself returns nil. That's why we see nil as the first element in the returned array." -https://launchschool.com/lessons/6a5eccc0/assignments/f4481ce5

Ruby docs says:
> Returns an array of objects which are collected by returned transformed (maybe) values from the block.

  With a block given, calls the block with successive elements; returns an array of the objects returned by the block:


```ruby
{ a: 'ant', b: 'bear' }.map do |key, value|
  if value.size > 3
    value
  end
end

```
# Practice Problem 10

What is the return value of the following code? Why?

Here we are calling `Array#map` on the array object `[1, 2, 3]`. This is the non-destructive `map` and so will return a new array object, filled with new objects that represent any transformations indicated by the return value of the block on each iteration.

In this example, the return value will be `nil` if `num > 1` since `puts` always returns `nil`. (This will also output the value to the console.)

The return value will be `num` -->
(a new or same object?
here numbers are immutable so the same object will be returned

but what if its a string? 
still returns new object because if it didn't it would be mutating! :D)

The final return will be the array object containing the elements `1`, `nil`, and `nil`.

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].map do |num|
  if num > 1
    puts num
  else
    num
  end
end

# => [1, nil, nil]
```


1hr:15mins to complete


# RB110.1.11 Practice Problems: Additional Practice

## 1.
Turn this array into a hash where names are keys and values are position in the array:

```ruby
flintstones = ["Fred", "Barney", "Wilma", "Betty", "Pebbles", "BamBam"]

name_and_position = {}

flintstones.each_with_index do |name, index|
  name_and_position[name] = index
end

p name_and_position
```

## 2.
Sum ages from Munster family hash:

```ruby
ages = { "Herman" => 32, "Lily" => 30, "Grandpa" => 5843, "Eddie" => 10, "Marilyn" => 22, "Spot" => 237 }


p ages.values.sum # => 6174

```

## 3.
Remove people with ages > 100 

```ruby
ages = { "Herman" => 32, "Lily" => 30, "Grandpa" => 402, "Eddie" => 10 }

ages.reject do |name, age|
  age >= 100
end

# OR mutating version:
# ages.reject! do |name, age|
#   age >= 100
# end

# other ways:
# ages.select! do |name, age|
#   age < 100
# end

# ages.keep_if
# ages.filter!


# => {"Herman"=>32, "Lily"=>30, "Eddie"=>10}
```



## 4.
Pick out the min. age from the list of family members; return an int

```ruby
ages = { "Herman" => 32, "Lily" => 30, "Grandpa" => 5843, "Eddie" => 10, "Marilyn" => 22, "Spot" => 237 }

p ages.values.min
```


## 5.
Find the index of the first name that starts with 'Be'

```ruby
flintstones = %w(Fred Barney Wilma Betty BamBam Pebbles)

p(
  flintstones.each_with_index do |name, index|
    break index if name.start_with?('Be')
  end
)

p(
  flintstones.index do |name|
    name.start_with?('Be')
  end
)

# Both versions => 3
```


## 6.
Write code so all names are shortened to the first three chars (mutate the existing array)

```ruby
flintstones = %w(Fred Barney Wilma Betty BamBam Pebbles)

flintstones.map! do |name|
  name[0..2]
  # or
  # name.slice(0, 3)
  # or
  # name[0, 3]
end

p flintstones

```


## 7.
Create a hash that shows the frequency of each letter in the string given.

```ruby
statement = "The Flintstones Rock"

p(
statement.chars.each_with_object({}) do |letter, freq|
  next if letter = ' '
  if freq.keys.include?(letter)
    freq[letter] += 1
  else
   freq[letter] = 1
  end
end
)

# => { "F"=>1, "R"=>1, "T"=>1, "c"=>1, "e"=>2, ... }
```


## 8.
What happens when we modify an array while we are iterating over it? What would be output by this code?
If an array is modified during iteration, we run the risk of skipping over elements or repeating blocks for the same index over and over.

This is because the block is passed the value at a given index. So in this first example, we iterate over:
array[0]
array[1]
array[2]
etc...

If we delete an object like we do on the 4th line of code in the snippet, we remove the element at index [0] and upon calling the block during the next iteration, the value at [0] is not what it is in the original calling object, but this new mutated object instead. 

So after the first iteration we would be calling the block on the object:
numbers which now looks like [2, 3, 4] but we are at index [1] for the second iteration and so we skip over the element/object `2` which would have been the next element in the non-mutated array object we started with.


```ruby
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4]
numbers.each do |number|
  p number
  numbers.shift(1)
end

# Output:
# 1 (delete 1)
# 3 (delete 2)
# returns original object (now mutated) with is [1, 2, 3, 4] with the two 'shifted' elements removed:
# => [3, 4]



# What would be output by this code below?

numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4]
numbers.each do |number|
  p number
  numbers.pop(1)
end

# Output:
# 1
# 2
  ## why doesn't this return `nil` twice? If the original `each` method is invoked on the numbers array with a length of 4, it should plan to iterate through all 4 indexes, 0..3. This would mean output for numbers[2] and [3] would return `nil`. 
    # Since this doesn't not happen, it appears that this method invocation repeats for every new length of numbers while still retaining the iteration on which we currently are. Here is what is effectively happening
    numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4]
    counter = 0

    loop do
      p numbers[counter]
      numbers.pop
      counter += 1
      break if counter >= numbers.size
    end

    numbers
  # LS Answer:
  # > From this we see that our array is being changed as we go (shortened and shifted), and the loop counter used by #each is compared against the current length of the array rather than its original length. 
  # > In both cases we see that iterators DO NOT work on a copy of the original array or from stale meta-data (length) about the array. They operate on the original array in real time.

  # How is the `each` method or block keeping track of the index it needs to stop at?
  # Is the `break` condition when the return value of calling the index `nil`?
  # NO - the object is mutated but the index
# => [1, 2]
```

## 9.
Title-ize the following string (capitalize each word)

```ruby
words = "the flintstones rock"

def titleize(string)
  string.split().map do |word|
    word.capitalize
  end.join(' ')
end

# => words = "The Flintstones Rock"
```

## 10.
Modify the existing hash to include a key/value pair that expresses:

age_groups = [kid, adult, or senior]

a kid       0 - 17
an adult    18 - 64
a senior    65+.

```ruby
munsters = {
  "Herman" => { "age" => 32, "gender" => "male" },
  "Lily" => { "age" => 30, "gender" => "female" },
  "Grandpa" => { "age" => 402, "gender" => "male" },
  "Eddie" => { "age" => 10, "gender" => "male" },
  "Marilyn" => { "age" => 23, "gender" => "female"}
}

munsters.each do |name, info_hash|
  age_group = case munsters[name]["age"]
              when 0..17         then "kid"
              when 18..64        then "adult"
              when 65..          then "senior"
              end

  munsters[name]["age_group"] = age_group
end

p munsters


```
